WE HAVE A LOT OF CANDIDATES OUT THERE, BUT EACH SEEM TO HAVE,
THERE, BUT EACH SEEM TO HAVE, YOU KNOW, CERTAIN ISSUES THAT
YOU KNOW, CERTAIN ISSUES THAT PULL THEM BACK.
PULL THEM BACK. FORMER VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN
FORMER VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN IS CONCERNED THAT HIS POTENTIAL
IS CONCERNED THAT HIS POTENTIAL 2020 RUN COULD BE FACING A
2020 RUN COULD BE FACING A FUND-RAISING ROADBLOCK.
FUND-RAISING ROADBLOCK. THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTS
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTS THAT THOSE CLOSE TO BIDEN HAVE
THAT THOSE CLOSE TO BIDEN HAVE TOLD HIM HE WILL BE AT A
TOLD HIM HE WILL BE AT A FUND-RAISING DISADVANTAGE
FUND-RAISING DISADVANTAGE COMPARED TO HIS RIVALS WHO HAVE
COMPARED TO HIS RIVALS WHO HAVE RECEIVED A FLOOD OF EARLY SMALL
RECEIVED A FLOOD OF EARLY SMALL DONOR DONATIONS.
DONOR DONATIONS. BIDE I DON’T KNOWN MAY BE FORCED
BIDE I DON’T KNOWN MAY BE FORCED LARGE DONORS AND HE’S BEEN
LARGE DONORS AND HE’S BEEN WARNED TO BE PATIENT --
WARNED TO BE PATIENT -- >> STEVE RATTNER, I WANT TO GO
>> STEVE RATTNER, I WANT TO GO TO YOU.
TO YOU. THINGS HAVE CHANGED A LOT OVER
THINGS HAVE CHANGED A LOT OVER THE PAST DECADE.
THE PAST DECADE. IT USED TO BE THIS WAS BASICALLY
IT USED TO BE THIS WAS BASICALLY A CLOSED CONTEST FOR REPUBLICANS
A CLOSED CONTEST FOR REPUBLICANS OR DEMOCRATS ALIKE, YOU GET
OR DEMOCRATS ALIKE, YOU GET REALLY WEALTHY PEOPLE, YOU GET
REALLY WEALTHY PEOPLE, YOU GET BUNDLERS AND YOU’RE OFF TO THE
BUNDLERS AND YOU’RE OFF TO THE RACES.
RACES. AT LEAST WITH THE DEMOCRATIC
AT LEAST WITH THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY NOW, SMALL DOLLAR
PARTY NOW, SMALL DOLLAR DONATIONS PLAY AN IMPORTANT
DONATIONS PLAY AN IMPORTANT ROLE, NOT AN OUTSIZED ROLE BUT
ROLE, NOT AN OUTSIZED ROLE BUT CERTAINLY EQUALLED TO THAT OF
CERTAINLY EQUALLED TO THAT OF PEOPLE THAT CAN RAISE MONEY IN
PEOPLE THAT CAN RAISE MONEY IN LARGE SUMS.
LARGE SUMS. BERNIE SANDERS CERTAINLY SHOWED
BERNIE SANDERS CERTAINLY SHOWED THAT LAST YEAR.
THAT LAST YEAR. BUT THERE IS A CONCERN, AND I’VE
BUT THERE IS A CONCERN, AND I’VE HEARD IT FROM DEMOCRATS ABOUT
HEARD IT FROM DEMOCRATS ABOUT JOE BIDEN AND THE FACT THAT HE
JOE BIDEN AND THE FACT THAT HE JUST MAY NOT EXCITE THE BASE
JUST MAY NOT EXCITE THE BASE ENOUGH TO BE ABLE TO BRING IN
ENOUGH TO BE ABLE TO BRING IN THE SMALL DOLLAR DONORS AND HE
THE SMALL DOLLAR DONORS AND HE WILL BE DEPENDENT ON BIG DONORS
WILL BE DEPENDENT ON BIG DONORS AND LITTLE ELSE.
AND LITTLE ELSE. >> I THINK THERE’S A NUMBER OF
>> I THINK THERE’S A NUMBER OF THINGS IN THERE, JOE, I’LL TRY
THINGS IN THERE, JOE, I’LL TRY TO UNPACK QUICKLY.
TO UNPACK QUICKLY. FIRST OF ALL, AS YOU SAID, THE
FIRST OF ALL, AS YOU SAID, THE FUND-RAISING DYNAMICS IN BOTH
FUND-RAISING DYNAMICS IN BOTH PARTIES I THINK BUT CERTAINLY IN
PARTIES I THINK BUT CERTAINLY IN THE PARTY I KNOW BETTER HAVE
THE PARTY I KNOW BETTER HAVE FLIPPED AROUND COMPLETELY FROM A
FLIPPED AROUND COMPLETELY FROM A TIME WHEN BUNDLERS, INDIVIDUAL
TIME WHEN BUNDLERS, INDIVIDUAL GIVERS DOMINATED TO NOW THE
GIVERS DOMINATED TO NOW THE ONLINE SMALL DONORS DOMINATING.
ONLINE SMALL DONORS DOMINATING. WHAT SANDERS DID AFTER HIS
WHAT SANDERS DID AFTER HIS ANNOUNCEMENT OF RAISING $6
ANNOUNCEMENT OF RAISING $6 MILLION IN 24 HOURS WAS STUNNING
MILLION IN 24 HOURS WAS STUNNING BECAUSE YOU CAN DO THE MATH.
BECAUSE YOU CAN DO THE MATH. HOW MANY 2,700 CHECKS DO YOU
HOW MANY 2,700 CHECKS DO YOU HAVE TO COLLECT TO EQUAL THAT?
HAVE TO COLLECT TO EQUAL THAT? THERE’S A SCHOOL OF THOUGHT IN
THERE’S A SCHOOL OF THOUGHT IN THE PARTY WHICH I THINK HAS
THE PARTY WHICH I THINK HAS MERIT, THAT THE CANDIDATES WHO
MERIT, THAT THE CANDIDATES WHO CAN RAISE MONEY THAT WAY,
CAN RAISE MONEY THAT WAY, SANDERS, WARREN, KAMALA HARRIS,
SANDERS, WARREN, KAMALA HARRIS, POSSIBLY BIDEN AND POSSIBLY --
POSSIBLY BIDEN AND POSSIBLY -- AND CERTAINLY BETO O’ROURKE IF
AND CERTAINLY BETO O’ROURKE IF HE GETS INTO IT WILL HAVE A
HE GETS INTO IT WILL HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL ADVANTAGE OVER THE
SUBSTANTIAL ADVANTAGE OVER THE ONES WHO HAVE TO GO AROUND
ONES WHO HAVE TO GO AROUND COLLECTING THOSE $2,700 CHECKS.
COLLECTING THOSE $2,700 CHECKS. BIDE I DON’T KNOW’S
BIDE I DON’T KNOW’S BIDEN’S ABILITY TO DO THAT ON
BIDEN’S ABILITY TO DO THAT ON LIEN IS QUESTIONABLE-- ONLINE IS
LIEN IS QUESTIONABLE-- ONLINE IS QUESTIONABLE.
QUESTIONABLE. WHETHER HE HAS THAT SAME
WHETHER HE HAS THAT SAME PERSONALITY AND ABILITY TO DRAW
PERSONALITY AND ABILITY TO DRAW THAT MONEY IN IS UP IN THE AIR.
THAT MONEY IN IS UP IN THE AIR. AND BIDEN HATES MAKING THOSE
AND BIDEN HATES MAKING THOSE CALLS AND GOING TO THOSE
CALLS AND GOING TO THOSE MEETINGS.
MEETINGS. IF HE CAN’T RAISE IT ONLINE,
IF HE CAN’T RAISE IT ONLINE, HE’S GOING TO BE FORCED INTO
HE’S GOING TO BE FORCED INTO THAT SETTING.
THAT SETTING. SO THE FUND-RAISING PIECE OF IT
SO THE FUND-RAISING PIECE OF IT COULD BE VERY DISPOSITIVE IN A
COULD BE VERY DISPOSITIVE IN A FIELD THIS LARGE AND YOU COULD
FIELD THIS LARGE AND YOU COULD SEE PEOPLE LITERALLY NOT MAKING
SEE PEOPLE LITERALLY NOT MAKING IT TO IOWA BECAUSE THEY CAN’T
IT TO IOWA BECAUSE THEY CAN’T RAISE THE $30 MILLION OR $40
RAISE THE $30 MILLION OR $40 MILLION THEY NEED TO BE
MILLION THEY NEED TO BE COMPETITIVE THERE.
COMPETITIVE THERE. >> WE’RE STARTING TO HEAR
>> WE’RE STARTING TO HEAR REPORTS FOR SOME BIG DEMOCRATIC
REPORTS FOR SOME BIG DEMOCRATIC DONORS, THE HAMLET ACT OF JOE
DONORS, THE HAMLET ACT OF JOE BIDEN IS GETTING OLD.
BIDEN IS GETTING OLD. THEY WANT HIM TO EITHER JUMP IN
THEY WANT HIM TO EITHER JUMP IN THE RACE OR ANNOUNCE HE’S OT OFU
THE RACE OR ANNOUNCE HE’S OT OFU THE RACE SO THEY KNOW WHAT HE’S
THE RACE SO THEY KNOW WHAT HE’S GOING TO DO.
GOING TO DO. YOU CAN SEE IT WAS EARLY
YOU CAN SEE IT WAS EARLY DECEMBER WHEN HE WAS RUBBING HIS
DECEMBER WHEN HE WAS RUBBING HIS HANDS TOGETHER TRYING TO FIGURE
HANDS TOGETHER TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHAT WAS GOING ON.
OUT WHAT WAS GOING ON. WE’RE IN THE MIDDLE OF MARCH
WE’RE IN THE MIDDLE OF MARCH NOW.
NOW. IT’S GETTING REAL.
IT’S GETTING REAL. AND YET WE HAD A "DES MOINES
AND YET WE HAD A "DES MOINES REGISTER" POLL THAT SHOWED JOE
REGISTER" POLL THAT SHOWED JOE BIDEN AND BERNIE SANDERS LAPPING
BIDEN AND BERNIE SANDERS LAPPING EVERYBODY IN THE FIELD, BIDEN AT
EVERYBODY IN THE FIELD, BIDEN AT 27%, BERNIE AT 25%, ELIZABETH
27%, BERNIE AT 25%, ELIZABETH WARREN AT 9%, KAMALA HARRIS AT
WARREN AT 9%, KAMALA HARRIS AT 7%, BETO AT 5, CORY AT 3 AND AMY
7%, BETO AT 5, CORY AT 3 AND AMY KLOBUCHAR AT 3% AND HOW MUCH
KLOBUCHAR AT 3% AND HOW MUCH LONGER IS JOE BIDEN GOING TO
LONGER IS JOE BIDEN GOING TO KEEP THE WORLD WAITING AND IS
KEEP THE WORLD WAITING AND IS THE POLITICAL WORLD GOING TO GO
THE POLITICAL WORLD GOING TO GO ON WITHOUT HIM IF HE DOESN’T
ON WITHOUT HIM IF HE DOESN’T ANNOUNCE SOON?
ANNOUNCE SOON? >> PRESIDENTIAL POLITICS IS
>> PRESIDENTIAL POLITICS IS ABOUT PERSONALITY AND
ABOUT PERSONALITY AND AUTHENTICITY.
AUTHENTICITY. JOE BIDEN HAS BEEN THINKING
JOE BIDEN HAS BEEN THINKING ABOUT RUNNING IN HIS ENTIRE
ABOUT RUNNING IN HIS ENTIRE LIFE, RAN TWICE AND ALMOST RAN
LIFE, RAN TWICE AND ALMOST RAN IN 2015 AND DECIDED NOT TO.
IN 2015 AND DECIDED NOT TO. A LOT OF PEOPLE WHEN LOOKING AT
A LOT OF PEOPLE WHEN LOOKING AT THE FIELD ARE FORGETTING ABOUT
THE FIELD ARE FORGETTING ABOUT HIM.
HIM. THIS IS NOT A GUY WHO HAS HAD A
THIS IS NOT A GUY WHO HAS HAD A LACK OF TIME, A SHORTNESS OF
LACK OF TIME, A SHORTNESS OF TIME TO THINK ABOUT THIS
TIME TO THINK ABOUT THIS DECISION.
DECISION. THE FIELD IS TAKING SHAPE
THE FIELD IS TAKING SHAPE WITHOUT HIM.
WITHOUT HIM. FORGET ABOUT THE FUND-RAISING
FORGET ABOUT THE FUND-RAISING FOR A SECOND, BUT PEOPLE ARE
FOR A SECOND, BUT PEOPLE ARE TAKING UP OXYGEN.
TAKING UP OXYGEN. THE FIELD IS TAKING SHAPE, IDEAS
THE FIELD IS TAKING SHAPE, IDEAS ARE TAKING SHAPE AND HE’S
ARE TAKING SHAPE AND HE’S NOWHERE.
NOWHERE. SO IT DOESN’T MAKE SENSE, IT
SO IT DOESN’T MAKE SENSE, IT DOES NOT PASS THE STRAIGHT FACE
DOES NOT PASS THE STRAIGHT FACE RACE --
RACE -- >> ARE YOU SUGGESTING HE NOT
>> ARE YOU SUGGESTING HE NOT JUMP IN THE RACE?
JUMP IN THE RACE? >> NO, HE HAS TO DO IT SOON.
>> NO, HE HAS TO DO IT SOON. PEOPLE DON’T UNDERSTAND EXACTLY
PEOPLE DON’T UNDERSTAND EXACTLY WHAT HE’S BEEN DOING.
WHAT HE’S BEEN DOING. HE’S BEEN THINKING ABOUT THIS
HE’S BEEN THINKING ABOUT THIS DECISION HIS ENTIRE LIFE AND HE
DECISION HIS ENTIRE LIFE AND HE DOESN’T SEEM TO BE ABLE TO MAKE
DOESN’T SEEM TO BE ABLE TO MAKE A DECISION.
A DECISION. IF YOU’RE A DEMOCRAT AND YOU
IF YOU’RE A DEMOCRAT AND YOU BELIEVE DONALD TRUMP, AS MANY
BELIEVE DONALD TRUMP, AS MANY DEMOCRATS DO, IS DESTROYING THE
DEMOCRATS DO, IS DESTROYING THE COUNTRY, WHAT IS TAKING SO LONG
COUNTRY, WHAT IS TAKING SO LONG IS THE SENSE THAT I GET FROM A
IS THE SENSE THAT I GET FROM A LOT OF DEMOCRATS.
LOT OF DEMOCRATS. >> NICK CONFESSORE, ONE MORE
>> NICK CONFESSORE, ONE MORE QUESTION ABOUT THIS "DES MOINES
QUESTION ABOUT THIS "DES MOINES REGISTER POLL," IF JAKE IS
REGISTER POLL," IF JAKE IS RIGHT, IF A POLL LIKE THIS IS
RIGHT, IF A POLL LIKE THIS IS ABOUT NAME IRCHLTS.D., WHY IS IT
ABOUT NAME IRCHLTS.D., WHY IS IT ELIZABETH WARREN IS DOWN AT 9%?
ELIZABETH WARREN IS DOWN AT 9%? I WAS SURPRISED SHE DIDN’T RATE
I WAS SURPRISED SHE DIDN’T RATE HIGHER.
HIGHER. >> I’M SURPRISED, TOO, JOE.
>> I’M SURPRISED, TOO, JOE. THE HONEST TRUTH IS I’M NOT
THE HONEST TRUTH IS I’M NOT SURE.
SURE. I CAN’T SEE THE REASON FOR WHY
I CAN’T SEE THE REASON FOR WHY SHE’S NOT DOING BETTER WITH
SHE’S NOT DOING BETTER WITH SMALL DONORS WHERE SHE HAS IN
SMALL DONORS WHERE SHE HAS IN THE PAST.
THE PAST. AND SHE’S THE MOST IDEA CENTRIC
AND SHE’S THE MOST IDEA CENTRIC CANDIDATE IN THE FIELD.
CANDIDATE IN THE FIELD. I CAN’T EXPLAIN IT EXCEPT MAYBE
I CAN’T EXPLAIN IT EXCEPT MAYBE SHE IS SUFFERING FROM THE SAME
SHE IS SUFFERING FROM THE SAME THING TO SOME EXTENT JOE BIDEN
THING TO SOME EXTENT JOE BIDEN IS.
IS. WE’RE LIVING IN AN ERA WHERE
WE’RE LIVING IN AN ERA WHERE MAYOR PETE AND KAMALA HARRIS CAN
MAYOR PETE AND KAMALA HARRIS CAN RAISE MONEY OUTSIDE THE
RAISE MONEY OUTSIDE THE STRUCTURE OF CONVENTIONAL
STRUCTURE OF CONVENTIONAL POLITICS.
POLITICS. FOR BIDEN ESPECIALLY, HE IS A
FOR BIDEN ESPECIALLY, HE IS A CANDIDATE OF THE OLD SCHOOL, OF
CANDIDATE OF THE OLD SCHOOL, OF BUNDLERS AND NAME I.D., BUT
BUNDLERS AND NAME I.D., BUT THERE IS A NEW KIND OF POLITICS
THERE IS A NEW KIND OF POLITICS COMING.
COMING. ASIDE FROM ALL THE OTHER FACTORS
ASIDE FROM ALL THE OTHER FACTORS THAT JAKE PUT IN THERE, HE HAS
THAT JAKE PUT IN THERE, HE HAS TO FIND A WAY TO LIVE AND WORK
TO FIND A WAY TO LIVE AND WORK AND SUCCEED IN THIS NEW ERA OF
AND SUCCEED IN THIS NEW ERA OF POLITICS.
POLITICS. >> ALL RIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT. AND ELIZABETH WARREN STICKING TO